Harvesting energy for a LoRa tracker

We are looking for ways to reduce the reliance on a relatively large (AA size) battery and are exploring various energy harvesting technologies. The initial work if focusing on solar energy but we would also like to explore kinetic, thermal and other energy harvesting approaches. In addition to energy harvesting was are exploring alternatives to batteries such as using super capacitors to replace or supplement batteries. 


Our initial work is using the BQ25504 Solar Cell LiPo Charger available on Tindie (<https://www.tindie.com/products/onehorse/bq25504-solar-cell-lipo-charger/>). This charger has a very small footprint (0.5 x 0.5 inch) which is important for the tracker. One issue is that this charger doss not have a large capacitor which would be needed to keep current flowing as the charger switches between charging the battery and then not charging when the battery threshold voltage is reached. See this link for more details: <https://hackaday.io/project/158837-ultra-low-power-lipo-charger-via-energy-harvesting/log/149075-vstor-is-not-vsyst>. The charger’s developer gets around that issue by connecting the positive lead for the load to the battery directly instead of to VSTOR on the charger. When the load is connected to VSTOR it is protected from over and undercharging the batter but when the load is connected directly to the battery there is still protection from over charging since the charger will still turn off when the battery voltage reaches a threshold but there is no protection from undercharging and that can cause problems with lithium ion batteries if the battery itself does not have circuitry to protect it from excessive low voltage. We are using quality batteries and expect the battery circuitry is sufficient to prevent the battery from catching fire but we are also looking into alternative chargers.

So far we have tested two solar panels purchased from eBay. The first is 30mm x 25mm 1V 100mA and the other (not yet tested) is 23mm x 20mm 0.5V 15mA. The larger panel outputs sufficient current to keep a battery charged even when the panel is enclosed in a clear heat-shrink tube. That is encouraging. At some point we also want to test smaller panels such as the IXYS KXoB25-14X1F which is 23mm x 8mm 0.56 V 55mA.
